prep extracellular potentials tutorial. Updated corresponding example (#1825)
arbor-sim/arbor: doc/tutorial/tutorial_lfpykit.rst

.. _tutorial_lfpykit:

Extracellular signals
=====================

This example takes different elements from the above example tutorials
(:ref:`A simple single cell model <tutorialsinglecell>`,
:ref:`A detailed single cell recipe <tutorialsinglecellswcrecipe>`)
to create a geometrically
complex single cell model from an SWC morphology file, and adds predictions of
extracellular potentials using the external `LFPykit <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest>`_ Python library
(https://LFPykit.readthedocs.io, https://github.com/LFPy/LFPykit).
`LFPykit <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest>`_ provides a few different classes facilitating
calculations of extracellular potentials and related electroencephalography (EEG)

> and magnetoencephalography (MEG) signals from geometrically detailed neuron models under various assumptions.

Author: Sure can do!

> and magnetoencephalography (MEG) signals from geometrically detailed neuron models under various assumptions.

Author: I've now included the entire line-source formalism. If this is too much detail, let me know.

This tutorial goes through the required steps in more detail.

In this tutorial, the neuron model itself is kept deliberately simple with only
passive (leaky) membrane dynamics, and it receives sinusoid synaptic current
input in one arbitrary chosen control volume (CV).

.. Note::

   **Concepts covered in this tutorial:**

   1. Building a morphology from an SWC file.
   2. Recording of transmembrane currents using :class:`arbor.cable_probe_total_current_cell`
   3. Recording of stimulus currents using :class:`arbor.cable_probe_stimulus_current_cell`
   4. Calling the :class:`arbor.place_pwlin` API
   5. Map recorded transmembrane currents to extracellular potentials using `LFPykit <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest>`_

.. _tutorial_lfpykit-model:

The single cell model
---------------------

First we import some required modules:

.. literalinclude:: ../../python/example/single_cell_extracellular_potentials.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 16-18

Define ``Recipe`` class:

.. literalinclude:: ../../python/example/single_cell_extracellular_potentials.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 24-56

Load morphology on ``SWC`` file format:

> .. code-block:: python

Author: Ok.

>    # define morphology needed for ``arbor.place_pwlin`` and ``arbor.cable_cell`` below

Reviewer: In other examples, the cell related stuff is generated from inside a function, providing some clarify in the code. I would argue to do that here too. It's lines 58-107; the function could return `p,cell`.

Also, is there anything to describe the cell textually? For instance, you add the `iclamp` in a specific place, I think this is quite tied to `single_cell_detailed.swc`. If so, then hardcode the filename + consider adding an illustration of that location (see `doc/concepts/labels.rst`, I can do it if needed.)

Author: I've added a callable function `make_cable_cell` returning `p, cell` as suggested. 
If you see a neater way of setting a stimulus location as `clamp_location = arbor.location(4, 1/6)`, please revise. 
The location is now added to the results figure.

transmembrane currents recorded during the
simulation to extracellular potentials in vicinity to the cell.
We shall account for every segment in each CV using the so-called line-source approximation.

First we define a couple of inherited classes to interface `LFPykit <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest>`_
(as this library is not solely written for Arbor).
Starting with a class inherited from :class:`lfpykit.CellGeometry`
(`lfpykit.CellGeometry <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#class-cellgeometry>`_):

.. literalinclude:: ../../python/example/single_cell_extracellular_potentials.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 161-194

Then, a class inherited from :class:`lfpykit.LineSourcePotential`
(`lfpykit.LineSourcePotential <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#class-linesourcepotential>`_).
Other use cases may inherit from any other parent class defined in :class:`lfpykit.models`
(`lfpykit.models <https://lfpykit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#module-lfpykit.models>`_) in a similar manner:

.. literalinclude:: ../../python/example/single_cell_extracellular_potentials.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 197-244

> With these two classes one may then compute extracellular potentials from transmembrane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these two classes we can compute extracellular potentials from transmembrane
```

currents in space with a few lines of code:

.. literalinclude:: ../../python/example/single_cell_extracellular_potentials.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 247-270

.. _tutorial_lfpykit-illustration:

The result
----------

> The visualization below of simulation results shows both the cellular geometry and a contour plot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The visualization below of simulation results shows the cellular geometry and a contour plot
```

of the extracellular potential (``V_e``) in a plane.
Each part (CV) of the cell is shown with some color coding for the membrane potential (``V_m``).

.. figure:: tutorial_lfpykit.svg
    :width: 1600
    :align: center

.. Note::

    The spatial discretization is here deliberately coarse with only 3 CVs per branch.
    Hence the branch receiving input about 1/6 of the way from its root
    (from ``decor.place('(location 4 0.16667)', iclamp, '"iclamp"')``) is treated as 3 separate

>     line sources with inhomogeneous current density per length unit. This inhomogeneity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    line sources with inhomogeneous current density per unit lenth. This inhomogeneity
```
I think?

    is due to the fact that the total transmembrane current per CV may

>     distributed across multiple segments with varying surface area. The transmembrane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    be distributed across multiple segments with varying surface area. The transmembrane
```

>     current is assumed to be constant per length unit per segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    current is assumed to be constant per unit length per segment.
```
I think?
